{"email": ["richard.demillo@cc.gatech.edu"], "image": ["https://www.scs.gatech.edu/sites/scs.gatech.edu/files/images/people/richard_demillo_0.jpg", "https://www.scs.gatech.edu/sites/scs.gatech.edu/files/gt_theme_files/schoolofcs-coctag-2line-solid-black874-web.png", "https://www.scs.gatech.edu/sites/all/themes/gt/images/gt-map-image-default.jpg"], "research_blurb": ["The author of over 100 articles, books, and patents, Rich\u2019s research has spanned computer science and includes fundamental innovation in computer security, software engineering and mathematics. His present research interests are focused on information security and the creation of a new field of study devoted to the Web.As Dean of the College of Computing, Rich was a transformational figure at Georgia Tech. Under his leadership, the College launched three new schools, two research centers and seven new degree programs. Annual expenditures doubled. He expanded the College\u2019s international program and oversaw significant facilities expansions including the ground-breaking and construction of the 200,000-square-foot, $80 million Christopher Klaus Advanced Computing Building.\n\ttesting and reliability technology based on research that Rich conducted in the 1980s.The Computing Research Association: the voice of the research community in information technologyEmbedded Processor Architectures: Under his leadership, both (1) custom VLIW hardware and software technologies and (2) the PICO (Programs-in-chips-out) silicon compilation tools were transferred from research to HP\u2019s embedded processor division.Prior to joining HP, he was Vice President and General Manager for Information and Computer Sciences Research at Telcordia Technologies (formerly Bellcore) in Morristown, New Jersey where he directed computer science research and applied research in support of Telcordia\u2019s software businesses, telecommunications consulting businesses, as well as government and other externally sponsored R&D. He also led Telcordia\u2019s Internet Systems Group, aimed at the development and deployment of web-based software and online services for the communications industry.Software Tools: He led the development and marketing of Telcordia\u2019s successful Software Understanding and Analysis Tool Suite, the Year 200 Test Factory and the Automated Test Generation System. He functioned as the CTO for Telcordia\u2019s Software Systems organization, a development group of 6,000 software engineers who developed and maintained Telcordia extensive code base in support of telecommunications service providers. In addition, Rich had overall corporate responsibility for technology, strategy and planning for Telcordia\u2019s software business and for product and service line architectures. He successfully used this position to focus world-class research teams on problems of strategic importance to the company. From 1989 to 1991, Rich was the Director of the Computer and Computation Research Division at the National Science Foundation. In this capacity he managed the largest computing research division at NSF. He was responsible for most of the academic computer science research in the US, including programs in software engineering, theoretical computer science, numeric and symbolic computation, computer architecture, graphics, operating systems and programming languages. Among other achievements at NSF, he was responsible for successful national initiatives in High Performance Computing and Communications and Computational Biology.Under his leadership the Software Engineering Research Center became one of the most successful industrial research consortia in the nation. Until 1987, Rich was Professor of Information and Computer Science at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia. He was founding director of Georgia Tech\u2019s Software Engineering Research. His accomplishments as head of this center included the development and successful application of advanced software quality technology to high-visibility national security initiatives and systems such as the Patriot Air Defense System and the Strategic Defense Initiative. Another major accomplishment was his direction of the Software Test and Evaluation Project for the Office of the Secretary of Defense. In this role he was the chief architect of DoD policy for software testing and evaluation.Rich and his collaborators originated the concept of dynamic slicing, which has since become a common technique for analyzing large software systems during development and maintenance. He was a co-inventor of the program mutation approach to software testing and has been the principle developer of the technology surrounding automated test based on this method. The 1976 analysis of formal methods that he wrote with Alan Perlis and Richard Lipton was one of the most influential software engineering papers of the 1970\u2019s. He was one of the originators of modern research in cryptographically-based security methods. His papers on cryptographic protocols are among the first in the field to propose and analyze methods for using data security to provide transactional and functional security in computer systems. In 1976, Rich collaborated with Richard Lipton and L. H. Landweber to establish THEORYNET, one of the first national computer networks that connected research sites and is widely considered to be an early forerunner of CSNET, NSFNET and the Internet. Rich\u2019s early research was largely devoted to mathematical and theoretical topics. His work on applying powerful mathematical logic techniques to computational complexity led to the discovery of independence results to characterize the famous P=NP problems of complexity theory. He was also responsible for the development of the combinatorial tools for analysis graph embeddings, which had wide-ranging application in software engineering, programming, and VLSI design."]}