{"email": ["sjguy@umn.edu"], "image": ["img/Stephen2012.jpg"], "research_blurb": ["\n      Stephen J. Guy: Research interests - Robotics, Animation, AI", " Old Bio\n     Stephen J. Guy is an associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota. His research focuses on the areas of interactive computer graphics (real-time crowd simulation, path planning, intelligent virtual characters) and multi-robot coordination (collision avoidance, sensor fusion, path planning under uncertainty). Stephen's work on motion planning has been licensed for use in games and virtual environments by Relic Entertainment, EA, and other companies; his work in crowd simulation has been recognized by best paper awards at international conferences. Prior to joining Minnesota, he received his Ph.D. in Computer Science in 2012 from the University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill with support from fellowships from Google, Intel, and the UNCF, and his B.S. in Computer Engineering with honors from the University of Virginia in 2006. \n     \n     Stephen J. Guy is an associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of Minnesota. His research focuses on the development of artificial intelligence for use in autonomous robotics (e.g., collision avoidance and path planning under uncertainty) and computer simulations of human movement and behavior (e.g., crowd simulation and virtual characters). Stephen's work has had a wide influence in games, VR, and real-time graphics industries: his work on motion planning has been licensed by Relic Entertainment, EA, and other digital entertainment companies; he has been a speaker in the AI Summit at GDC, the leading conference in the games development industry. He is the recipient of several awards including the Charles E. Bowers Faculty Teaching Award and multiple best paper awards for his research work in simulation and planning. Stephen's academic work has appeared in top venues for robotics, AI and computer graphics including SIGGRAPH, IJRR, IEEE Trans. on Robotics, AAMAS, AAAI, and IJCAI. His work on simulating virtual humans has been widely covered in popular media including newspapers, magazines, documentaries, and late-night TV. Prior to joining Minnesota, he received his Ph.D. in Computer Science in 2012 from the University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill with support from fellowships from Google, Intel, and the UNCF, and his B.S. in Computer Engineering with honors from the University of Virginia in 2006.\n    ", "\n     I always look forward to meeting and collaborating with new students.  I have a wide variety of interests (games, robots, AI/learning, graphics, simulations, ...), and am always excited about new ideas in these fields.  If you are interested in discussing these or other areas, feel free to stop by my office or e-mail me to schedule an appointment. \n"]}