{"email": ["baras@irs.umd.edu"], "image": ["https://www.cs.umd.edu/sites/default/files/styles/medium/public/images/userpictures/2016_JohnBaras_headshot_highres.png?itok=uxg8C9y2"], "research_blurb": ["He has consulted extensively with industry and government on various automation, systems and telecommunication problems. He has served in the following: Board of Governors of the IEEE Control Systems Society; IEEE Engineering R&D Committee; Aerospace Industries Association advisory committee on advanced sensors; IEEE Fellow evaluation committee. He is currently serving on the editorial board of Mathematics of Control, Signals, and Systems, the editorial board of Systems and Control: Foundations and Applications, the editorial board of IMA J. of Mathematical Control and Information, the editorial board of Systems Automation-Research and Applications. Dr. Baras is a world renowned researcher in communication and automation systems, has received many awards for his papers and research, has more than 450 technical papers published and was the editor of the book \u201cRecent Advances in Stochastic Calculus\u201d, Springer, 1990. He holds three patents (all in signal processing) and has four pending. He has graduated 42 PhD students and 70 MS students. He has sponsored and supervised 32 postdoctoral scholars. Dr. Baras is internationally known for his leadership of industry-university-government consortia and has collaborated effectively with both industry and government scientists and engineers.Professor Baras' research interests include: wireless networks, sensor networks, distributed networked control systems, satellite and hybrid communication networks, integrated network management systems, fast Internet services via hybrid, satellite and wireless networks, network security and intrusion detection, stochastic systems, robust control of nonlinear systems, real-time parallel architectures for nonlinear signal processing, intelligent control systems, expert and symbolic systems for control and communication systems synthesis, distributed parameter systems, planning and optimization, real-time architectures for intelligent control, speech and image compression and understanding, biomimetic algorithms and systems for signal processing and sensor networks, model-based systems engineering, model-based software engineering, integration of logic programming and nonlinear programming for trade-off analysis, object oriented modeling of complex engineering systems, validation and verification of systems models and designs, intelligent manufacturing of smart materials, integrated product-process design. He is widely credited for inventing and establishing Internet over satellite and hybrid networks and for initiating the new \u201ccomponent based\u201d approach to wireless network modeling and design. He has more than 30 years experience and contributions to defense related problems.", "View Department Office Contacts"]}